#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass scrbook
\use_default_options true
\master 0000_PA14_wlan_1.lyx
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language ngerman
\language_package default
\inputencoding utf8
\fontencoding global
\font_roman cmr
\font_sans lmss
\font_typewriter cmtt
\font_math auto
\font_default_family sfdefault
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf true
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing other 1.2
\use_hyperref false
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\index Stichwortverzeichnis
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 35mm
\topmargin 35mm
\rightmargin 25mm
\bottommargin 30mm
\headheight 18mm
\headsep 12mm
\footskip 20mm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language french
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle fancy
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter*
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
markright{Abstract}
\end_layout

\end_inset

Abstract
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
addcontentsline{toc}{chapter}{Abstract}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
begin{otherlanguage*}{british}
\end_layout

\end_inset

Regarding to real-time systems consisting of several components, which are
 connected by a network, aspects like failsafe data transmission as soon
 as guaranteed data transmission times are of significant importance.
 An approach to fulfil these requirements is provided by the High Availability
 Seamless Redundancy (hereinafter also referred to as HSR) protocol.
 Redundant data transmission and also the structure of the compounds implemented
 as a ring topology rank as main characteristics of the HSR protocol.
 The main focus of this thesis consists of the modelling of various scenarios
 based on a HSR ring network composed of distinct instances of HSR end devices.
 For this purpose a virtual HSR node is programmed, which implements certain
 rule sets.
 These rule sets apply to the handling of Ethernet frames and the dataflow
 in a HSR ring.
 To achieve guaranteed maximum transmission times, Ethernet frames are prioritiz
ed, which allows the preemption of low prioritized Ethernet frames.
 Concerning this, the IEEE Draft P802.3br / D1.0 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "Draft_Standart"

\end_inset

 is used as a basis to simulate the behaviour of Interspersing Express Traffic
 (IET) in the form of MAC Merge Frames (mFrames) in function of time.
 As simulation environment OMNeT++ is used, a discrete event simulation
 environment for communication networks.
 The results of the present work reveal the impacts on delay times of Ethernet
 frames in due consideration of different rule sets and varied data traffic
 in a HSR ring.
 Moreover there is put a spotlight on the factors such as data backlog in
 view of various dataflow rules of particular HSR nodes and how many Ethernet
 frames that are being preempted at a time during one simulation run.
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
end{otherlanguage*}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
